[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Thank you all.
Thank you all for coming so
early on a Sunday morning.
I'm not a morning person, so
I'm so grateful to all of you
for being here.
How many of you
have never heard me
speak before, not read my
book, not seen my TED Talk?
OK, how many have never
heard me speak live before?
OK, quite a few.
Great.
That means I get to use the same
old jokes, and you'll laugh.
Yay.
I am so happy to be
here, happy to be here
in this room with all of you--
with all of you beautiful
people, beautiful souls.
But I'm also happy to be alive
here on this physical Earth,
because if the doctors were
right, the last day of my life
should have been
February the 2nd, 2006.
That was 13 years ago.
13 years ago, I should
have left this planet.
So I'm sort of here
on borrowed time.
But on that day on
February the 2nd, 2006,
I had end-stage lymphoma--
end-stage cancer.
I had cancer for
four years, which
had spread and metastasized
all over my body.
It started with a
lump on my neck.
And over a period of
four years, it spread.
It started with a
diagnosis of stage 2.
And then it continued to
spread into my breasts and all
around my neck.
And by 2006, four years
on, I had tumors--
many of them the
size of golf balls--
from the base of my skull, all
around my neck, under my arms,
and in my breasts, all the
way down to my abdomen.
By that point, the doctors had
given me three months to live.
And at that time, my body had
stopped absorbing nutrition.
I had lost so much weight.
I weighed between
80 to 85 pounds.
My muscles had
completely deteriorated.
And I didn't even have
the strength to stand.
I couldn't even hold my head up.
My head would be
hanging down on my neck.
My neck didn't have the
strength to hold my head up.
My lungs would fill with
fluid and had to be drained
frequently, regularly.
I couldn't lie down flat, or
I would choke on my own fluid.
I breathed with the
aid of an oxygen tank.
I had an oxygen mask on
my face all the time.
I had open skin lesions.
And on February the 2nd,
2006, my organs shut down.
I had been in so much pain up
until that point and so much
discomfort, because I couldn't
walk, I couldn't sleep,
because I would choke
on my own fluid.
So I had to be propped
up all the time.
And I'd been in so much pain
and so much discomfort--
and I even remember that on
the night of February the 1st,
the nurse gave me an
extra shot of morphine,
just so that I'd
be able to sleep.
I was so tired.
I was just so tired.
I had been fighting for my life.
I had been fighting
to stay alive.
Up until that point, I felt
I had tried everything,
and I mean everything,
to stay alive.
And finally, on February
the 1st, I let go.
I stopped fighting.
I was done.
I was just done.
And on the morning of February
the 2nd, I didn't wake up.
And my husband, who was frantic,
was calling the doctors.
And the doctors said that
my organs had now shut down,
and these were my final
hours, and that I was not
going to come out of the coma.
I had gone into a coma.
And the doctors informed
him that I was not
going to come out of the coma.
My mom was there.
She was there because I had
been getting sicker and sicker.
They had been contemplating
calling my brother, who
was in a different country.
This was happening
to me in Hong Kong.
And they were contemplating
calling my brother, who
was in India at the time.
And up until that point,
I kept saying to them,
don't concern him, don't worry
him, he's got his family.
But the interesting thing is,
when I went into the coma,
he sensed something before he
even got a call from anyone
in my family.
He just felt he had to be here.
And he went to the
airport to get a ticket.
And he was already flying
on his way to see me.
While I was in the coma,
unbeknownst to everyone
around me, I had
actually left my body.
And for the first time,
all the pain was gone.
And the fear was gone.
And I felt incredible.
I was aware that my physical
body was lying there
in that hospital bed.
But I felt so free and
magnificent and powerful.
I felt so expanded and
powerful that my physical body
looked so small and
insignificant compared
to how I was now feeling.
I was aware that my
family was distraught.
And I wanted them to
know that I was OK.
I really wanted them to know.
But there was no way for me
to communicate with them.
My physical eyes were closed.
And even though my
physical eyes were closed,
I was aware of
everything that was
happening all around the room.
And it wasn't like using
your physical eyes,
where you have to kind of
turn your head and focus.
It was more like a
360-degree peripheral vision,
where I was just
aware of everything.
But I wasn't able to
communicate with my family.
But I could feel what
they were feeling.
And yet, I had this
feeling-- even though I
could see that they
were distraught,
I had this feeling
that everything's
going to be OK, even if I died.
I didn't know that I
was going to come back.
But there was just this
feeling that everything
is going to be OK.
Even if I die, it's OK.
It's OK.
And I could feel myself continue
to expand as if I was just--
I call it just
pure consciousness.
And I continued to expand.
And I was aware
that I was dying.
But it just felt so beautiful.
I felt as though I was
enveloped in a feeling of just
pure, unconditional love.
And I call it "unconditional,"
because actually, there
is no other kind of love
except unconditional,
because if it's
not unconditional--
if it's conditional,
then it's not love.
As soon as love is conditional,
it's not love anymore.
It's something else.
It's approval.
It's like seeking approval,
which is conditional.
So what I felt there
was nothing like I
had ever felt in my
physical life before.
That was the first time
I had that comparison--
that oh, my god, all the things
I thought that were love over
here, were not.
It was just me seeking
approval and needing
to behave a certain way
to get people to love me
or to approve of me.
I felt I was loved,
regardless of who I was
or what I had done in my life.
There was no judgment.
There was no hell.
As much as many people here
like to believe there is,
unfortunately, I can be
certain that there was no hell.
And there was what I call
a state of clarity, where I
felt that I understood my life.
I understood why I had
done everything I had done.
I understood why I got cancer.
And basically, you get
to review your own life.
And you get to, not
in a judgmental way,
but in a very
compassionate way, you even
get to review the things
you've done wrong,
where you've hurt other people.
And you understand
why you did them.
It was just such an
incredible space,
where I even understood
why I had the cancer.
At this point, I could
sense the presence
of other entities,
which is where
the love was emanating from.
It felt like I was just
bathed in this love.
And I think also
what contributes
to this feeling of love was that
there's no fear in that realm.
It made me realize how fearful
we are here in the physical.
And we don't need to be.
We really don't need to be.
But it made me realize
that we are all
brought up on a diet of fear.
I had been brought up
on a diet of fear--
fear of not being good
enough, fear of failing,
fear of disappointing
people, fear of illness--
name it, all the fears--
fear of failing.
So my entire life had
been a fear-based life.
And once all that
fear was gone, it's
like, wow, this was incredible.
I just felt so free
and loved and light.
I realized, for the
first time, that love
is the absence of fear.
And I think love exists
all the time, all the time.
But we don't feel it, because
fear is a denser energy.
And when I was in the state of
fear, I couldn't feel the love.
I was in this state of love, and
I realized, for the first time,
that I had access
to it my whole life.
We all do, every
single one of us.
But we haven't accessed it,
because the state of fear
is so heavy and dense that
the love can't come through.
And then-- I apologize for
pausing, but there seems--
is everything OK?
Yeah, good.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Oh, I'll take questions at
the end, if you don't mind.
I thought you were having
trouble hearing or something,
that it was something urgent.
No.
Sorry about that.
Sorry.
I then became aware that I was
surrounded by beings, entities.
And I became aware
that I was surrounded
by entities, and many
of them who I had
known in this physical life.
But I didn't know all of them.
I didn't recognize all of them.
But all I could feel from them
was pure, unconditional love.
And I felt like I knew
what they were trying
to communicate with me,
because we didn't need words
in that realm.
There was no language.
We were just pure essence.
And I knew what they
wanted me to know.
And they wanted me
to know that they
had been with me all the time.
And one of those essences,
one of those entities,
was my deceased father--
my dad, who had passed
away 10 years prior.
When I was growing up, I had
a very turbulent relationship
with my dad.
And so it was incredible
for me to see him there.
See, my parents are Hindus--
Indian.
So my ethnicity, I'm Indian.
But I've never lived in India.
I grew up in a Western culture.
I went to a Western school.
So I had one foot
in each culture.
My parents were Indian.
And they were trying to groom
me for an arranged marriage.
And I rebelled against it.
And as I was growing
up into my late teens
and they were trying to groom
me for an arranged marriage
and I didn't want
to have anything
to do with an arranged
marriage, because I wanted
to be independent and go out and
work and study and everything--
they were trying to get me to
start to prepare to one day
be married.
Now, in my culture--
in Indian culture--
your value as a woman
is dependent on how valuable
you are to the men in your life.
That's one thing.
The second thing is that how
desirable you are as a wife
is determined by how good
you are at housework.
And here's the thing--
I was crap at housework.
[LAUGHTER]
I hated housework.
So I felt totally unvaluable.
I felt unworthy.
And that's what I
was measured against.
So also, to give you an idea
of the kind of person I was,
I was a huge fan
of Cyndi Lauper.
You remember Cyndi Lauper--
the "Girls Just Want to
Have Fun" and "True Colors."
That was me.
I used to dress like her.
This was back in the '80s.
I used to spray my
hair with neon colors.
And now just imagine,
Hindu parents,
trying to get their
daughter married.
And it's like trying
to get Cyndi Lauper
into an arranged marriage.
It wasn't going to happen.
But finally, what
ended up happening--
see, the other thing
is, Indian women,
at that time in the
'80s, we were discouraged
from higher education, as
well, because it made you
too smart and less desirable.
And so the less
educated you were,
the easier it was to get you
married, because otherwise, you
start to develop a mind of your
own, which they didn't want.
So anyway, all my Indian
friends all succumbed.
And they all got married.
My Western friends went on to
college, and I became lonely.
And so I finally succumbed
to an arranged marriage.
Well, I got engaged to a guy.
And we were engaged.
And then when I really started
to see what I got into,
because I had to learn to
cook his favorite foods
and learn to clean the house
and learn to do laundry--
well, all of which
I don't mind doing.
But I wasn't allowed
to go back to school
or go to work or
any of these things.
When I started to understand
what I was getting into,
three days before the
wedding, I ran away.
And I want you to
keep in mind, this
was going to be
an Indian wedding,
where they book all the venues.
It's like those
week-long affairs.
And the relatives fly in
from all over the world.
So three days before
the wedding, I ran away.
And I was ostracized
in our community,
because the way it worked back
then-- this was in 1986, 1987.
The people in our
community believed
that if you do that as
a woman, I was spoiled.
So I was labeled as being
spoiled and choosy and all
these kinds of things,
which brought a lot of shame
to my family and my parents.
My parents were told that no
other Indian man would marry me
after what I had done.
So they had to deal
with all of that.
Anyway, I really thought I
had brought a lot of shame
to my family and to my dad.
And when I did finally marry
the man that I did marry,
my dad had already passed away.
And so here he was now
on the other side--
my dad and me, his
essence and my essence.
And I thought that I would
get judgment from him.
I had carried the guilt of
letting him down and letting
my family down.
But all I felt from him was
pure, unconditional love,
empathy, and compassion.
And what I realized is
that when we cross over
from here, when we
die, we don't just
leave behind our physical body.
We leave behind our gender,
our culture, our race,
our religion, and all
the layers of beliefs
and filters and
lenses that we've
accumulated over a lifetime.
We leave all of that behind.
So if we leave all of that
behind, what crosses over?
What crosses over is
our pure essence--
our pure essence, which,
to me, is the same
as pure love or pure God.
We can call it whatever we want.
And I realized that
just as much as I
had been a victim of my
culture while I was growing up,
my dad was a victim
of the same culture.
At the end of it, we're
all victims of our filters
and our upbringing and
our genders and so on,
our cultures.
And here we were, both of
us, without any of that, just
our pure essence--
my dad's pure essence
and my pure essence.
And all we had for each other
was pure, unconditional love.
And unconditional
love is something
that goes beyond
forgiveness, because in order
to forgive someone, you
have to believe that they
have done something wrong.
So you have to judge them first.
And then it's like, I'm
going to forgive you
for what you've done wrong.
In that state, it's beyond that.
You see right
through the person,
and you understand why
they did what they did.
So all you have for them
is compassion and empathy.
So forgiveness is
not even needed.
It goes right to the
soul, the heart, the love,
the essence of the person.
That's what it felt
like on the other side.
I realized that every single one
of us have access to that state
all the time.
But all the filters just
crowd it out, block it out.
Everything was so crystal
clear there-- everything.
Everything was sharper.
The colors were sharper.
And wherever I put my
awareness, I could be there.
My awareness then
went to my brother.
And I actually knew,
without having been told,
that he was on his way to fly
down to see me before I died.
And I started to know that,
oh, my physical body better
stay alive a little bit
longer, or my brother will
be distraught if he gets
there and I'll be dead.
Literally, I could
see whatever--
wherever I put my awareness,
that's what I could see.
I was aware of other lives.
But they felt like they were
happening right here and now.
I was aware of a
life that I interpret
as a past life,
where I recognized
my brother, my husband.
But they had other roles.
I could see my future pan
out before me, as well.
But I had the choice of
whether to come back or not.
I had the choice
of whether I wanted
to come back into
this physical body
and live out the rest
of this life or not.
And it was so beautiful on
that side that no part of me
wanted to come back,
because my body was sick.
And it was in so
much pain that I
didn't see any
reason to come back,
because I had been suffering.
My family had been suffering.
There was no reason
to come back.
But in those moments, because
I was in this state of clarity,
it's like, as soon as I would
have a thought, an awareness,
a focus on something, the
answer would come right away.
It was like, immediately,
the answer would come.
In that state of clarity,
I was understanding
why I had the cancer.
I understood how every thought
and every decision that
had been made from
a place of fear
had contributed to me
lying on that hospital
bed in that moment, dying.
I understood how and why
it was that I was dying.
I understood what
my purpose had been.
I understood what my intention
had been when I first
came into this world.
I understood how
I had lost my way.
All of that was so clear to me.
And then I started
to get the clarity
that if I chose to go back--
and I feel it was my dad
that was helping me to get
to this place of clarity--
that if I chose to go back,
now that I knew this--
now that I knew this truth--
that my body would heal
very, very quickly.
I started to understand that
illness is not physical.
It's metaphysical.
And I understood that my
physical body was only
a reflection of the
metaphysical me--
the soul me, the rest of me.
And I started to
understand, because I
had feared all the treatments.
I feared cancer.
I feared the treatments.
And I started to understand,
while I was there,
that what I had, what
I was going through,
my physical illness,
was not something
that was treatable
from the physical,
because it was my choice
whether I wanted to stay or go.
The interesting thing,
also, was that I
was shown what I would be
doing if I chose to come back.
I was shown that the illness
would heal very, very quickly.
But I wasn't forced
to come back.
I was even shown that
if I chose to leave,
my medical records
would show that I
died from organ failure
due to end-stage cancer.
But if I chose to
go back, my organs
would start functioning again.
And so I could see all of this.
And it was so clear.
And that's when my dad
started to say to me,
it's not your time.
If you don't go back, you won't
have fulfilled your purpose.
And he told me that my husband's
purpose was linked to mine.
Now, I had felt so sad that
my dad hadn't been there
to see my husband
and I get married.
He wanted me to know
that he was there.
He had seen us get married,
even though I couldn't see him.
And he wanted me to know that
I was meant to be with Danny.
And that's why it didn't work
with the previous person.
Danny was my soul
mate, is my soul mate,
and that we had a purpose.
And our purpose was linked.
And if I didn't go
back, he wouldn't
be able to fulfill
his purpose, either.
And so it was in
that moment that I
made the choice to go back.
And in that moment, my dad said,
now that you know this truth,
go back and live
your life fearlessly.
And it was in those
moments that I started
to come out of the coma.
And when I came out of the
coma, I saw my family around me.
My brother was there.
He'd gotten off the plane.
And he was right there, and
my mom, and my husband, Danny.
And I started to
come out of the coma.
I'd been in the coma for
only a day and a half--
about 30 hours.
So I'd gone in the coma
on February the 2nd.
I came out of it on
February the 3rd.
And I was still really groggy,
like one foot on each side.
And I was saying to them,
I'm going to be fine.
You don't have to
worry about me.
Dad told me it's
not my time to go.
He's here.
So they didn't know what
I was talking about.
So they said, what?
What are you talking about?
And I said, I'm fine, really.
And then I started
to tell them things
that had been happening in the
room while I was in the coma--
things which there was
no way for me to know.
And so they knew something
strange had happened.
They called my
doctor to come in.
And when the doctor came in,
I started to tell him things
like, oh, you took
fluid out of my lungs.
I was choking at
4:00 in the morning,
and you took fluid
out of my lungs.
And he said, how do you know?
You were in a coma.
There's no way you
could know that.
And then I said
to Danny, I said,
that's the doctor that told you
that these are my final hours,
that I'm not even going to
make it through the night.
And Danny said, there's no
way you could have heard that.
He said that to me down the
hallway, about 40 feet away
from your room.
And so all these things
started to come up,
where I was describing things.
I was describing the nurse who
was poking tubes into my veins.
And it was a male nurse.
And he couldn't find my veins.
And he was actually saying,
her veins have retracted.
And they were resigning
themselves to the fact
that it was too late, anyway.
I was gone, anyway.
And so I was recollecting
all of this for all of them.
And they were really surprised.
But anyway, within four days,
the tumors shrunk by 70%.
The doctors didn't
even know what
to write in my medical records.
My oncologist made the
gesture of throwing
my file into the trash.
He was like, I don't even
know what to write in here.
I don't even know
what to make of you.
That's what he said.
I am so grateful this happened
to me in the hospital,
because I have the medical
records to prove it,
because I wasn't aware
of the challenges
that I would get
later from people
who question and question.
So I'm so thankful that
it happened in a hospital.
But as I said, four days later,
after coming out of the coma,
the tumors shrunk by 70%.
I wanted to pull
all the tubes and--
I was off the breathing tube.
I was off the nutrition tube.
And I was off on a lot
of these different tubes.
And I was sitting up,
and I was talking.
And the doctors really just
couldn't figure it out.
Oh, and my organs started
functioning again.
And I had these
open skin lesions,
which the doctors
thought that they
would need to use reconstructive
surgery to heal them,
because they said, your body
is so weak and so devoid
of nutrition, you don't have
the strength for that to heal.
They healed by themselves.
In three and 1/2 weeks, they
could find no trace of cancer
in my body.
They were just waiting
for me to get stronger.
Two weeks later, I was strong
enough to leave the hospital
and go home and to live
my life cancer-free.
And that was 13 years ago.
And--
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
So now, though, you'd
think that, OK, I go home,
live my life cancer-free, and
it's all peachy and roses.
But let me tell
you something, that
was when the challenge began,
because here's what happens.
When I went home, I realized
the person that came out
of the hospital was a different
person from the one who
went into the hospital.
The person that went
into the hospital
was someone who was
really scared of cancer,
really scared of disappointing
people, really scared
of letting people down.
I was really scared of illness.
Every decision I made in
my life came from a place
of fear instead of love.
I was a people-pleaser.
I was a doormat.
I had completely lost myself.
Now I realize that the most
important thing I could do
was to love and honor
myself and to be who I am--
to truly be who I am.
And I was, in a strange
way, a little bit
scared of doing it
in the community
that I was in, because
the community was
the community I was in that I
had built as a people-pleaser.
And I knew that if I was to go
back to the life I had before
and be the person
I was before, that
was the person who got cancer,
because I now knew that cancer
is not a physical disease.
I understood that the
cancer was not my enemy.
People say to me, the
cancer damn near killed you.
And I say, no, I was killing
myself before the cancer.
The cancer came to
me to save my life.
And I wasn't listening to it.
And so I continued
to not listen to it.
I continued to not listen
to the wake-up calls
until I reached near-death.
I tell people, I couldn't
have been very smart
that it took death for
me to realize this--
that it took death for me to
realize that all I have to do
is be myself.
And that is the crux of it.
When I learned that
I had to come back
and fulfill my purpose--
your purpose, your purpose,
and my purpose are all the same.
It's actually very simple, but
we make it really complicated.
Our purpose is to be who we are.
That's it.
It's nothing more than that.
And it's also to love ourselves.
And what do I mean
by "love ourselves"?
Many people think
that loving ourselves
means just going for massages
and going for spa dates
and things like that.
And people say, I love
myself, I treat myself a lot,
but my life still
isn't working for me.
And how many of you think
loving yourself is selfish?
Or how many of you
were brought up
to believe that loving
yourself is selfish?
OK.
So I was brought up to
believe that loving myself
is selfish, too.
And quite a lot of you--
I saw a lot of hands go up.
Here's where I learned
completely differently
on the other side.
What I realized is
that we are all much
more than our physical bodies.
So I want you to imagine this.
Imagine an iceberg.
When you look at an
iceberg, even a picture
of an iceberg, what
you're really seeing
is just the tip of the iceberg.
Does everyone know that?
That most of the iceberg--
a much bigger part
of the iceberg--
is beneath the water.
And you can't see it.
There's about 80%
more iceberg that you
can't see than you can.
It's the same with us.
It's the same with you and me.
80% of us, you can't see.
And we never developed a
language to tap into it.
When we were born, we knew
that we were much more
than our physical bodies.
What you see here--
your physical body,
my physical body--
is only a small percentage
of who we really are.
When I died, I realized
I was much bigger.
My space takes up
much more space
than just where I'm standing.
And so does yours and yours and
yours and yours and all of you.
And we can actually
sense each other,
whether we care to
admit it or not.
Why do you think
your pet dog knows
when you're coming home long
before your dog can see you?
Because they're aware of
the rest of their iceberg.
We have denied it from birth.
We've not even
given it language.
So we don't even
consider it a thing.
And when you are aware
of it as a child,
you're told it's
your imagination.
And so you start to push it out
and push it away and deny it.
And we have been
told that all we are
is five sensory,
three-dimensional physical
beings.
But in actuality, we're not.
We're not.
And that's why we're living
in so much fear, because we
don't see the whole picture.
We don't see the whole iceberg.
And that's what I discovered
when I was in the other side--
that we are all connected.
We're all connected.
We're all in this hole together.
And there is so much more to
us than this physical body.
And that "more" part of us
overlaps with everybody.
So if I am in fear,
what am I doing?
I'm taking this fear
with me wherever I go.
If I don't love myself and I
loathe myself, what am I doing?
I'm taking it with
me wherever I go.
And I'm spreading it
to everybody around me,
because the rest of my
iceberg is touching yours
and yours and yours.
And this is what
we're doing today.
Why do you think there's
so much fear in the world?
Because we don't realize it.
We're sharing fear.
We're spreading fear.
What is love?
Love is the absence of fear.
To me, love is realizing
you are the whole iceberg.
Fear is thinking you're just
the tip of the iceberg--
that this is all I am.
And my tip of the
iceberg has to please
that tip of the iceberg in
order to win their approval,
or I won't be popular,
or they won't like me.
And so what do we do?
We shrink ourselves.
And we make ourselves small.
And we bring this fear-based
self wherever we go.
And instead of touching
everybody's lives with love,
we touch everybody's lives
with fear, because all of us
are part of a whole.
So now, here's the
other thing I learned.
When I say we're
all connected, I
use the analogy of
fingers on a hand.
Imagine if each finger
thought they were
a separate, individual being.
Each finger thought they were
And imagine if they
thought, I have
to get ahead of
these other fingers,
because there isn't
enough to go around,
and I have to get
ahead of them, and I
have to get the job before
they do, or compete with them
and make more
money than they do.
And so they're fighting
with each other,
competing with each other,
trying to get ahead.
And when they die, they
realize, oh, my gosh, we're
all part of the same hand.
If we worked together,
we could have
gone so much further
and done so much more,
because we're all one.
We're one.
We're part of one entity, one
essence, one consciousness.
So my consciousness is connected
to yours and yours and yours
and yours.
And it's too bad we only
realize this when we die.
And that was my first question
is, why do we only realize this
when we die?
And the answer I got was, no,
we knew it when we were born.
But it got
conditioned out of us.
And so each of us
are all connected.
And so when you
don't love yourself--
when you don't love
yourself, what happens
is that space of lack
of love gets taken over
by fear, because when you
don't love yourself-- so let
me make it even clearer for you.
If we are all part
of one consciousness,
consciousness has chosen to
come here and represent itself
as all of us.
And we can call it God.
God has chosen to come
and express itself
as you and you and
you and you and me.
God has chosen to express itself
in all these different forms.
Consciousness is
expressing itself
in all these different forms.
When you love yourself,
you allow God consciousness
to express itself through you
in the way you were meant to.
You allow yourself to
be who you truly are.
When you don't
love yourself, you
think you are
undeserving and unworthy.
And so you try to be who
everyone else wants you to be.
And that's how
you lose yourself.
That's how you lose yourself.
That's how we get
into a state of fear--
a fear of what everyone
else is thinking of us,
a fear of disappointing people.
Does anyone relate to that?
Being in fear of
disappointing people?
Yep.
How many of you have
trouble being who you are
and expressing who you are?
See, quite a few of you.
So many people relate to this.
And if you are an
empath, which I
gather most people in a
conference like this would be,
you feel it even more.
You actually feel the emotions
of other people even more.
And so it becomes
even more important
for you to actually love
yourself and find your joy.
OK.
So what does loving
yourself mean?
It means finding your joy,
following your passion.
But here's the hardest
part for people
who don't love themselves.
To learn to love
themselves, this
is the hardest thing
you have to do.
You have to start
saying no to things that
no longer feel right to you.
So many people who
come to my conferences
and come to conferences and read
books and read my books and so
on, we all fall into
this trap, where we think
we need to do more, learn more.
And when things go wrong in
our life-- when we feel fear,
we think, oh, my gosh, what do
I need to do to get rid of it?
What more do I need to learn?
And we're really judgmental
on ourselves, because we say,
I'm on this path, I've
read all these books,
I've been to all these courses.
What's wrong?
What am I not getting?
But in actuality, sometimes we
have to do it the other way.
The problem is that
we're doing too much.
The problem is, we're
beating ourselves
up, thinking that we're
still not getting it.
We're beating ourselves
up, thinking that there's
more we have to do and be.
What if it's the
other way around?
What if I told you, you
already are everything
you are trying to attain?
You already are.
But you have been convinced,
or convinced to believe,
that there is something
wrong with you.
So you are now going out in
search of how to correct it.
But in actuality, there
is nothing wrong with you.
And I like to use the
metaphor of Michelangelo.
Michelangelo used to carve these
beautiful statues of angels--
beautiful statues.
And people used to
say to him, how can
you carve these
beautiful statues
from these blocks of
marbles without any plans
or without any
drawings or sketches?
He just chips away.
And he carves up an angel.
And he says, the angel
is already there.
All I do is chip away at what
is not part of the angel.
And I set the angel free.
So what if I was to tell you,
there is nothing more that you
need to do or be or learn?
But it's the opposite.
You need to let go
of what is not you.
Chip away at what is not
you, and set that angel free.
Set your heart free.
Set your soul free.
That's what your soul is
really crying out for.
And the way I do that is, we
start by saying things like,
where have I said
"yes" when I mean "no"?
And I've said "yes" for the
wrong reasons, because I'm
afraid of disappointing people.
I'm afraid of what people
think of me, because that's
one way that we add
all these layers.
The other thing is, what have
I taken on that's not mine?
What have I taken
on that's not mine?
Am I doing things
for other people?
Or am I getting into dramas
that are not my dramas,
into other people's fears?
OK.
So here's where you get drawn
in really, really easily.
And we're in this climate--
when I say "this
climate," about the things
that are going on in
the world right now.
There's a lot of things
that feel scary and dark.
And you get drawn
in, because people
make you feel guilty that
you have to be in this--
maybe a campaign that makes
you feel angry or makes
you research things that
makes you feel really angry
and makes you feel fearful.
Or even our medical system
comes from a fear-based place.
Our medical system is focused
on looking for illness.
It's not focused on wellness.
It's focused on
looking for illness.
So all these things are always
focused on the darkness.
What I always say is that,
especially in this world
right now--
the climate the way it is--
it's really important that
you focus on your light.
And don't allow
people, using guilt,
or you trying to please people,
and people who have dramas,
or people who are involved in
things that you don't like--
don't allow them to draw you in.
You are not helping people by
stepping into the darkness.
You help people by
holding onto the light.
And don't feel guilty about it.
That's super important.
So now, the other thing
is, let's talk a little bit
about illness.
And I want to also share a
little bit of a meditation
with you, because I've created
a new meditation, taking people
into their own
near-death experience.
But what I wanted to
do is share a 10--
live.
I'm going to do this live--
share a 10 or 15-minute
sample with you.
And then-- bless you.
And then we can go into
a couple of questions,
if there's time at the end.
So a little bit about illness--
your body is much
smarter than you think.
Your body is capable
of so much more
than you've been led to believe.
Unfortunately,
our medical system
is fear-focused, as opposed
to love or health-focused.
Unfortunately, this is the case.
If it were up to
me, I would actually
separate medical hospitals
from emergency hospitals.
In other words, accidents and
emergencies would be hospitals.
But people dealing
with illnesses
would go into something
else that I might call
healing sanctuaries, retreats.
They need something
very different.
They need to be in
a place that makes
them feel welcomed and loved,
because here's the irony.
Fear stresses your
immune system.
Fear actually puts you
in fight or flight,
which stops your immune system.
How many of you fear hospitals?
Raise your hand.
Yeah, a lot.
There's probably
60%, 70% of you.
Now, isn't it ironic that
the place that you're
supposed to go for
healing actually
suppresses your immune system,
which is what you need most?
So if it were up to
me, healing centers
would do the opposite
of what hospitals do.
You need to be asked questions.
If you go in with an
illness, a diagnosis,
you need to be asked questions
like, are you lonely?
Have you suffered
a trauma recently?
Does your life have
meaning and purpose?
Do you have people in
your life who love you?
Are there people in
your life who you love?
Do you feel that there's
passion and humor in your life?
Do you have fun?
Do you have joy?
Do you have any deep issues?
Are you having financial issues?
Do you have people
dependent on you
who you're afraid
of letting down?
These are the kinds of things
that coaches or people need
to dig deeper, in order
to really heal where
the illness is coming from.
So if it were up to me, we
would have healing sanctuaries,
where, instead of all medical
doctors and radiologists
and people like that,
we would actually
have a team of coaches who would
help you through your issues.
And if you needed physical
support, in whatever way--
in plant medicine or anything
like that-- you would get that,
as well.
But at the same time, you
would have other work done.
A dear friend of
mine, Sue Morter,
does beautiful work-- beautiful
healing work-- on the body.
And hers is really
powerful, by the way.
So there would be so many
modalities like that for you
to choose from in a healing
sanctuary that could really
get to the bottom
of your healing
and allow whatever needs
to be released, to release.
I know that if I had
something like that,
I would have healed
without having to die,
because for me, the fear
of the illness was huge.
I was so scared of cancer.
I was so afraid.
I was watching my best
friend die of cancer.
And I was so afraid of cancer.
And what I started to do was
that I started to do everything
to prevent cancer.
I started to live my life
to prevent getting cancer.
I started to research all
the natural supplements.
And I would take
boatloads of supplements.
And I started to grow
my own wheat grass.
And I would take wheat
grass juice every morning.
I went completely raw vegan.
And I would be paranoid if I
missed a dose of supplements.
I would not eat sweets
or cheesecake or anything
or chocolate or anything.
I was no fun at all.
I'd lost my sense of humor.
I totally had lost
my sense of humor,
because I was so scared
of getting cancer.
And you know what happened?
I got cancer.
So I'm not saying
don't eat healthy.
But I'll tell you
what's more important.
It's the fear.
And when you eat healthy from
a place of loving your body
and loving your life, that
is so much better for you.
And when you do that,
you know that your body
is more resilient than you've
been led to believe it is.
And if you're going to
have that cheesecake
or that glass of wine or that
piece of chocolate, enjoy it.
Just enjoy it.
And what really matters is
going out with people you love
and sharing food
with people you love
and cooking food in
the space of energy,
because what you're
actually eating
is only a very small part of it.
It really is, because in the
end, everything is energy.
Everything is energy.
So what I'd like
to do right now is,
I would like to take you
all on a little meditation,
if you'll let me.
And just relax.
It's just going to
be 10 or 15 minutes.
And then we'll
bring you out of it,
and then give you some
time to ask me questions.
Just relax.
And put your feet on the ground.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'd like you to just feel
the muscles and just relax.
Feel any tension in your
muscles just melting away.
You can close your
eyes, if you wish.
And if you choose not
to close your eyes,
we have some nice visuals
going on on the screens.
Feel the muscles in
your neck and shoulders
just melting away.
Feel the muscles in your legs
and feet just melting away.
Now, what I'd like you to
do is to imagine your life
five years from now.
See yourself moving forward
in time, five years from now.
Now, see yourself moving forward
in time 10 years from now,
15 years from now.
Now, imagine that you are
at the end of your life.
And just see yourself right
at the end of your life,
lying on a beautiful bed
with silk sheets surrounded
by your loved ones.
And you are aware that
with your next breath,
you will be leaving
your physical body.
So take a deep breath in.
And as you breathe
out, see yourself
stepping into a beautiful,
beautiful, colorful abyss that
waits in front of you.
Allow it to look like
whatever you want--
anything that brings
you comfort and joy.
What color is it?
What do you see?
Butterflies?
Rainbows?
Mountains?
Sky?
Let it take whatever
form it likes.
Now, start to become
aware of all the tension
and stresses of this life
that have fallen away.
Become aware of
how light you feel.
You have left all the tension
of the physical body behind.
Feel how light
and free you feel.
Now, start to notice
that you're surrounded
by a feeling of
unconditional love.
It just envelopes you.
This feeling has
no judgment at all.
It just loves you
for who you are.
Just bathe in this feeling.
Every discomfort, pain, hurt
that you've ever felt is gone--
just gone, washed away.
You feel amazing, powerful,
magnificent, and free.
You start to become aware that
this is your pure essence.
This is who you truly are.
Now you start to notice a
presence in front of you.
It's a person, a being, a soul--
a soul.
It's the essence-- the bright,
shining, beautiful essence.
Allow them to take
on any identity that
brings you comfort--
absolutely any, whether it's
an angel or an ascended master
or a deceased loved one.
Who do you see?
They have a message for you.
What is their message?
Their message-- their message is
positive and pure and is going
to take you to another level--
a higher level--
of your own self.
Listen to what they have
to say and trust it.
This beautiful being now
wraps you in a warm embrace.
Feel it.
Feel their love and
their authenticity.
They want you to know
that you're safe.
You're safe to be as
powerful as you can be.
big as you can be.
Your purpose is to be
all that you can be.
And they are with you.
Their job is to keep you safe.
They are with you.
And they are never leaving you.
Now this being says
you need to go back.
It's not your time to
be on this other side.
And even though it's
so beautiful here--
you want to be here forever--
the being says, your
work is not done.
I'm with you.
I'm going to help you fulfill
whatever you need to fulfill,
but you need to go back
into your physical body.
And this being guides you.
So now, in your
mind's eye, I want
you to see yourself as a
beautiful beam of light that
is entering your physical
body from the crown.
Let the beam of light,
which is actually
you, your soul, your essence--
let the beam of light enter
your body through your crown
and take on any color
that it wishes to take on.
And let this beam of
light fill your body--
completely fill your body--
and radiate outwards so
that it is far greater
than your body itself.
It extends outwards.
It can be any color you wish
or combination of colors.
And this beam of light is so
strong and powerful that it
creates a big aura-- a big
ball of aura around you
to protect you with light.
And this beam of
light shoots out
through the soles of your
feet and into the Earth
to ground you in this physical
so that you shall always
feel grounded here
while you are here.
And as it shoots
out into the earth,
it branches out so that it has
a nice, strong foothold here,
because for now, you
are meant to be here,
because you have a purpose.
You have a purpose.
And your purpose
is becoming clear.
your purpose is clarifying.
And slowly, I want you to start
feeling your physical body
again.
Your body is feeling
powerful and strong
and with intention and purpose.
Start to feel your neck, your
head, your arms, your legs,
your fingers, and your toes.
And whenever you're ready,
you can feel yourself back
into this room and
open your eyes.
Stretch.
And if you have water,
take a chug of your water.
Now, I said to you that
after I came back--
after I went home
from the hospital,
that's actually when
the real work began.
And I started
talking to my friends
about what I had experienced
on the other side.
I shared my story, much
like I shared with you--
that we are so much more
than physical beings,
that we are just the
tip of the iceberg,
that we're all connected,
and it was fear
that I felt that
was making me small
and suppressing my energy, which
is why the cancer had manifest.
And I was talking to them--
not just my friends,
but other people,
even people in the
medical community.
They wanted to understand
more what had happened,
because oncologists
said what had
happened to me was impossible.
But they had the medical
records to prove it.
And they said that
it was impossible
for billions of cancer cells
to leave my body so fast,
especially because
my body was so weak
and because my
organs had shut down.
And so they couldn't explain it.
So when I would explain
it in my own words,
they were like, no, no,
no, no, that stuff was just
your dying brain giving
you all these images.
We're trying to
understand the physical.
And I'm like, that is the point.
The physical is a reflection
of the non-physical.
But of course, people were
not quite with me on that.
So I was being challenged.
And even friends
of mine were like--
because I started
to say, oh, yeah,
you can't approach
illness with fear.
Their focus is on fear.
We got to love ourselves.
If you imagine that you were--
if you imagined that
you could see energy--
imagine if you could
see energy in your body.
When your energy
is at its highest
is when you love your life,
when you love yourself,
when you're passionate
about life, when you don't
have burdens on your shoulders,
when you're being who you are.
Now, that energy is
what keeps you healthy.
When you are in that energy
for prolonged periods of time,
you start to heal.
But when you are in
this energy of shrunken,
small, fear,
depression, hate myself,
pleasing people, doormat,
blah, blah, blah, blah--
then of course,
illnesses are going
to start to manifest,
because you're suppressing
your own life force energy.
So imagine if you
could see your energy.
And imagine if you could see
what activities increased
your energies and what
activities or what things you
say--
like, when I say "yes"
when I mean "no"--
imagine if you could immediately
see your energy diminish.
Now, if you could
see your energy,
you would make
different choices,
because you would have
this understanding
that if my energy is up and
out and big all the time,
there is no room for illness.
And so you would do things
that would feed your energy.
And when you do things
that feed your energy,
that's the energy you're
taking out into the world
and sharing with
everyone else, which
is why when you love yourself,
you're actually selfless,
because you're sharing that
love with everyone else.
When you don't love
yourself and you're
depressed and everything,
what are you doing?
You're drawing on
everyone else's energy.
So when we are taught that
it's selfish to love ourselves,
actually we're selfish when
we don't love ourselves,
because we're dependent on other
people's energies to feed us.
Does that make sense?
When you do love
yourself, you expand,
and you have energy,
which you bring with you.
So who would you rather sit
next to-- someone who loved
themselves or
someone who didn't?
So it's more selfish
not to love yourself.
So anyway, I was sharing this.
And people were telling
me, oh, you're delusional.
[LAUGHTER]
I was like, yeah, but
it's what I learned.
But I thought people
would be interested.
And so they felt that,
no, you're not realistic.
You still have to go for the
conventional medical stuff.
And you still need all--
you've got to be careful.
You had cancer.
You better be careful.
You better go for
all your tests.
You better do this.
You better do that.
I wasn't going back into
that fear-based world,
because that is the
fear-based world where
you feel you've got to do this,
or the cancer will come back.
I tell people who've
had illnesses before,
I want you to focus on
your purpose for life.
I want you to focus on your
passion, your joy, your love,
who you love, loving
yourself, learning more about
who am I. That's what I had
to discover when I came back--
who am I, really?
Because I never
discovered that before.
Those are the
things you focus on.
Don't focus on, oh, I'm worried
I'm going to get cancer again,
because even when you think
you're doing everything
to prevent "cancer," all you're
doing is focusing on cancer.
It's not a real disease.
And I know that's provocative.
I've said that in public before.
And of course, people
will slander it.
But I will say it here,
that cancer is not
a physical disease.
It's a metaphysical disease.
But anyway, I realized that
I had to isolate myself
from that fear-based community.
And I did.
Thank god, my husband
who was with me
through the whole journey--
we both transformed together.
And so he knew he couldn't live
in that fear-based community,
either, because we had
experienced something which
even science didn't understand.
So we moved.
We moved to a neighborhood
where nobody knew us.
And it was only after, I
was able to really discover
who I am in a neighborhood
where I felt safe,
because nobody knew me.
There was no expectation
of who I used to be.
Now, when you don't allow
yourself to be who you are,
the message you are
sending yourself
is that I am not a
good person, so I
have to control who I am
and try to be someone else.
That's actually not true,
because who you are underneath
is consciousness, love, God.
That's who you are.
How dare you suppress that?
When you think about it,
how dare you suppress that?
That is your essence.
So when I started to
discover and started
to go inward and started
to discover who I am,
my life started to change.
I wanted to get out
and heal people.
But I was really
careful where I went.
And then I started
to discover that this
is what I wanted to do.
And I wrote about
it on a website.
I wrote about my NDE.
I signed it just
"Anita M's NDE--
Anita M's Near-Death Experience.
Unbeknownst to me, it
started to go viral.
And then it was discovered by
the late, great Dr. Wayne Dyer.
He discovered it
on the internet.
And he took it to
his publishers.
He told them, track her down.
[LAUGHTER]
She agrees.
She agrees with me.
She's like, Wayne did that.
Wayne Dyer did that.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
He's in the room.
The doggy can sense
Wayne in the room.
[LAUGHTER]
Yep, he or she sees Wayne.
What a cute dog.
She's so cute.
Oh, that's me with the dog.
Thank you.
So Wayne Dyer contacted me
and had Hay House contact me.
And they tracked me down.
And interestingly, I had
been reluctant to speak
about my story.
One day, a friend of mine
asked me to share my story
in a healing group.
And after I shared it
with the healing group
and I saw how they
were affected by it,
I realized that is my purpose.
My purpose is to share my story.
The very next day was the day
that I got an email from Hay
House, saying, Wayne Dyer
discovered your story
on the internet and has
asked us to track you down.
Now, I'd never communicated
with Hay House before.
I'd never communicated
with Wayne Dyer before.
It was the first I
was hearing of it.
And they said that
we want to ask you
if you would like to write
a book of your story, which
Wayne Dyer would like to
write the foreword to.
I was like, would I?
Who gets a book deal in an
email, just handed to them?
So they said, Wayne
Dyer would like
to write the foreword to it.
And he would like to share
it with his entire audience.
So I was like, whoa.
I started crying when
I got that email.
And so of course, I said, yes.
And I wrote back, and I
said, oh, my god, what
do I have to do?
So they said, we'll send
you a book contract,
and you just have to sign it.
I was living in Hong Kong.
I signed the contract.
Hay House flew me to the US.
I appeared on stage with Wayne.
He pulled me on stage in front
of an audience of 3,000 people.
And there was live streaming
for another two million.
And it was the first
time I was on stage.
And so I was sitting in
the audience, in the front.
And he starts to share my story.
And he says, and
there's this woman
in Hong Kong who died,
and then tells them
about cancer that healed.
And then he says,
but she's here,
so let me get her
to share it herself.
And I was shaking.
And he pulled me up on stage.
And he hands me the mic.
And he says, go on,
share your story.
So there I was in
front of 3,000 people.
And I was really shaking.
And he said, are you scared?
He was really incredulous.
He was like, are you scared?
And I said, of course I am.
I haven't spoken in front
of 3,000 people before.
He said, you've
been dead and back.
What have you got
to be scared about?
And I actually said
to him, it's easier
being dead than public speaking.
[LAUGHTER]
And that's true.
But thanks to Wayne, my
book, "Dying to Be Me"--
he brought me on a TV show.
And it hit the New York Times.
And then it got published in 45
languages, which was amazing.
So the thing is,
what I discovered
later was that it took Hay House
five months to track me down,
because I was in Hong Kong.
I hadn't even put my
full name to the story,
because I wasn't sure
I wanted everyone
to know that it was me.
But having said that, the
day that they found me
was the day that I knew
that my purpose was
to share my story, to the day.
It was like, the night I
realized, this is my purpose,
this is what I'm
meant to be doing--
the next morning, the
email landed in my mailbox.
So my point is, I said
we are all connected.
When you are ready for
something, it comes to you.
You don't need to
go out and chase it.
It comes to you.
You just have to
be ready for it.
Now, as the years have gone
on and I'm living this life
post-NDE, where I feel
I have created my life--
pre-NDE, I was reacting to life.
Post-NDE, I'm creating my life.
Those same old friends
that said I was delusional,
they're back in my life.
They're like, oh, my
god, I love your life.
I want what you have.
How do I do what you do?
And I said, I guess you
got to be delusional.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
So stay on your unicorn.
[LAUGHTER]
And just follow your dreams.
And don't chase them.
Every time you feel you have
to chase and pursue and fight,
you're just telling
yourself-- you're
sending the message that I'm
not good enough for this.
You need to feel it
from the inside--
from the inside-out,
from the inside-out.
Illness, as well-- the physical
is the last place anything
shows up.
It starts from the inside.
Now, I want to go into
a couple of questions.
I know a couple of
people have questions.
But before I do, I created
a near-death experience
meditation CD.
And I just want to give them out
to two people, any two people.
And I'm just going to
throw one on each side.
I wish I had 500.
Oop.
Oops.
See, and I was
throwing it that way.
See, you were meant to get it.
One on this side.
Oops.
I am so sorry.
Thank you.
So that meditation
CD, I'm so thrilled.
We put it out on 2nd of
February, like, a week ago,
which is--
no, two weeks, three
weeks ago, because that
is the anniversary of my NDE.
And it hit the billboard charts.
It hit number 2.
We were so happy.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
For anyone who's
interested, also, I
do a lot of retreats
and events where
we like to take people
into that space of feeling
like they are expanded.
And we keep you in that space
for the entire duration.
I'm doing a cruise in June--
an Alaska cruise, where we
get to see real icebergs.
So if anyone wants
to join me, we've
left a flyer on
the chair for you.
So I would love it if
you guys joined me.
It's seven days of
lectures and fun
and tours and stuff like that.
So I think I have time
for, like, two questions.
Anybody?
You had a question
from the beginning,
so I'll let you go first.
>> Well, [INAUDIBLE].
>> Yes, wait for-- yeah,
there's a microphone there.
Yes, if you have a
question, there's
a microphone right there.
I didn't realize.
Thank you.
Yes, please.
Thanks.
>> OK.
Well, I also had a
afterlife experience.
And I was just
curious what you seen?
Because I seen a amber
energy, amber light.
Our bodies were reddish orange,
and everything else was yellow.
And I saw my friends.
And I still saw the
shape of their body,
but I didn't actually see--
I didn't see any form, their
facial features, or anything
like that.
>> That's exactly it.
You don't see their
facial features.
But you kind of see their form.
And you know from their
essence that it's them.
And also, there was
a lot of clarity.
So in terms of what I
could see, the colors
were clearer than here.
But it was like wherever
I put my awareness, that's
where I was.
A metaphor that I often use--
it was like I could see
everything all at once.
And if you watch my TED
Talk, you'll see this.
And I've even got it in my book.
A metaphor I use
is the warehouse.
It's as if you've
spent your whole life
in a darkened warehouse
with one little flashlight.
And everything
you've ever seen is
just what your little
flashlight has shone on.
So you can only see
one thing at a time.
One day, the flood lights go on.
And you realize that you're in
this huge warehouse with lots
and lots of things-- many
things you've never seen before,
because your flashlight
never shone on it.
And that's what it
felt like in my NDE.
It was like I was
aware that everything
existed simultaneously.
In fact, I was aware, from
that perspective, looking down
on physical life,
that on this life--
the bad, the good, the negative,
the positive-- everything
exists simultaneously.
But what we experience is
what we shine our light on.
So for example, dark and
light-- fear and love.
All of this exists
simultaneously.
But it depends what
we shine our light on.
And people seem to believe that
where their light is focused--
when the warehouse is dark
and you can't see anything
except what your
flashlight is shining on,
you think that's all
there is to life.
So if your light
is shining on fear,
you think, wow, life
is fearful, when
you don't realize that love and
joy and passion also all exist.
So what I always tell
people, the flashlight
is the analogy of our
awareness while we're here.
And when you're there,
you become aware
of the whole thing.
And over here, our awareness is
only focused on a little piece.
And just real quickly,
I want to try something
that I did before.
For those of you who've not
watched my TED Talk or heard me
speak before, I want you to
look around the room and find
everything in the room
that is red in color--
any family of red,
red-orange, dark red--
and commit it to your memory.
Anything in the room--
look around, look around.
Commit it to your memory.
OK.
And I'm going to
test you in a minute.
So face the front.
Now face the front.
Close your eyes.
No peeking.
Now I want you to
recollect everything
in the room that's blue.
[LAUGHTER]
Anything?
OK.
So now open your
eyes, and look around.
Look around at what you missed.
You're probably wearing
something yourself
that you forgot that's
blue-- your own shirt.
And here's the thing--
from where I'm standing,
there's more blue in
the room than red.
Your flashlight
was focused on red.
But there's more blue
in the room than red.
That's what we do with fear.
Fear sells.
So people will keep
feeding you fear.
As long as you keep
your awareness--
your flashlight--
focused on fear,
that will be your
experience of the world.
And you will completely
miss the joy, passion, love,
of which there is
more of in the world.
So that was the reason
for that exercise.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
And let's do one more question.
Yes, come on up to the mic.
Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
>> They call me Mr.
Red, by the way.
>> I love it.
>> I have a question for you.
I've heard the thing
about loving yourself.
And I never got the
proper definition.
Can you explain,
how do you love--
how do you love yourself?
Do you buy a lot
of expensive things
or buy things for people?
That's what I wanted to ask you.
I've heard about, love yourself.
But I've never found
out, how do you do it?
Thank you.
>> Great question.
Thank you, Mr. Red.
So there's many ways.
So first of all, it's
to love your whole self.
I like buying
expensive things, too.
But I like it when
people give me--
but anyway, that's
a whole other thing.
No.
So loving yourself does not--
I'm kidding.
Loving yourself does not
mean buying expensive things.
But you can.
It's OK.
When you don't love
yourself, you actually
do things to
compensate, like buying
yourself expensive
things, trying to keep up
with fashion, and all.
When you love
yourself, you actually
lose interest in those things.
That's what I
actually want to say.
Now, when you love yourself,
you're unafraid to say no.
You're unafraid to say no.
You're unafraid
to honor yourself.
You put your health first--
your well-being,
sorry, not health--
your well-being
before anything else.
When you don't
love yourself, you
fear not having enough money.
You say yes to things
for the sake of money,
as opposed to for the
sake of well-being.
So for example, if
you're in a job you hate,
it means you don't
love yourself enough.
If you're in an
abusive relationship
but you're too
afraid to get out,
it means you don't
love yourself enough.
You're not giving yourself
the same priority that you're
giving other people.
If you fall flat on
your face and fail
and you judge yourself
and beat yourself
up more than anyone
else does, that
means you don't love
yourself enough.
So those are examples
of not loving yourself.
When you love
yourself, you realize
you are much more than
your physical being.
You realize you have
a greater purpose.
And you put your
well-being-- your health--
you realize you are an
expression of the divine,
of consciousness.
And that is a priority to you--
to be that channel, to be
that vessel for the divine
to express itself through you.
And in order for the divine
to express itself through you,
you do whatever it takes
to be that channel.
And if it means sometimes
spending more money on things,
or if it means sitting in first
class for your well-being,
you do that, because
your well-being
is the most important thing.
But you do it for different
reasons than someone
who is just trying to compensate
for not loving themselves.
And for me, the big one
that I learned was I
realized that I was doing
things for the wrong reasons.
I was doing things because I was
afraid of disappointing people.
That was the big one for me.
So for me, the big one
about loving myself
was learning to say no.
So I hope that
clarified somewhat.
Let's do one last one, I think.
>> I was just curious
about one thing--
>> They can't hear you.
They can't hear you.
>> It was just a
snippet to what--
>> That's all right.
We want to hear you.
>> Do you think it's possible
that it's a practice?
It's not just getting
in that right place
or buying the first
class, but it's really
maybe a practice that's a daily
sort of practice to love self
to get into that
place more often?
>> Yes.
It is a practice.
So first, there has
to be that insight.
There has to be the
insight, the desire.
That has to come first.
But it does take time.
And you know why it takes time?
Because we've built a habit.
We've made a habit of
putting ourselves last.
And so we have to kind
of undo that habit.
We have to become aware.
Whenever you're
putting yourself last,
you have to become aware
that, oh, I'm doing it again,
I'm putting myself last again.
We really have to
become aware of that.
How many people
here have trouble
saying no when you really
don't want to do something?
OK.
So here's something I
want you to remember.
When you say yes
because you're just
afraid of disappointing
someone, now
imagine-- just imagine this.
Imagine if everything that
everyone has ever done for you,
they've done it because they're
afraid if they don't do it,
they'll disappoint you.
Imagine.
How does that feel?
How does that feel
if people have--
everyone that's said
yes to you, have said it
because they're
afraid of saying no,
not because they really
want to do it for you,
but because they're
afraid of saying no.
Don't you wish that they
would rather have been honest?
You do, right?
That's where the dissonance is.
We don't like the feeling
of someone doing it to us.
But we do it to other
people and think
we're good people for doing it.
We think that, oh, I'm
too nice to say no.
That's a dissonance.
That's the dissonance that
gets you to become inauthentic.
That's the trap.
So remember that.
Remember that.
Treat other people the way
you want to be treated.
But don't forget,
love yourself first.
And so if you want other
people to be honest with you
and say no to you
when they don't
feel like doing something,
do that for them, as well.
So thank you all for
coming this morning.
I so appreciate you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]